For my final project, I wanted to learn more about software development in R. I decided to make an R package for ECAC Hockey data. `ecacr` is designed to allow R users with minimal ggplot experience to create some relatively custom graphs of team, game, and player data. The package scrapes data from the ECAC Hockey website (using `rvest`) and creates beginner visualizations using `ggplot2` and other `tidyverse` packages. 

A large portion of my project work was dedicated to troubleshooting R package hurdles such as properly defining package dependencies or dealing with R environment issues. However, I did get the chance to utilize some important concepts regarding the ethics of data visualization, expressing uncertainty, and general data visualization practices.

As one of my goals for this R package was to make data visualizations accessible to novice R-users, I had to make sure the package felt accessible to novice R-users. This required a lot of argument error checking to provide useful error messages, as well as some time throughout development to ensure the format of functions felt intuitive and familiar. I also had to modify some graphs, or tone their complexity down, to ensure that they could be understood by someone with less statistical/graphical expertise.

I also had a good run in with some concepts on expressing uncertainty. While developing some of my graphics to visualize game data over the course of an ECAC season, I was considering including a boxplot, lollipop chart (with distribution information), or an error bar chart. I had a friend look at the three options and he had some useful input. He said that while the lollipop chart showed more information, it was too confusing. Even though it was better at showing uncertainty, it wasn't worth the sacrifice to the novice data visualization experience. 

While choosing colors for some of my graphs, I had to spend a few minutes considering my options. Particularly for my boxplot, R's default color scale made the teams look sequential, like there was a meaningful or pre-determined order to them. It was worth it to me to change around the colors to an unordered scale. I tried to manually assign colors for each team to have their team colors, but the graph ended up looking tacky and wacky, so I went with a brewer color palette instead. 

I could describe this project as the gift that kept on giving because there is no shortage of future work that I'd have liked to do. I would like to more rigorously test my package functions, and include more "vignette" functions to help users get their feet under the package. I'd also like to have had the chance to incorporate the `polite` package, as it works well with `rvest` to ensure we aren't bombing a target site's servers with web requests. There are some minor issues with a few specific variables or functions that I'd like to fix. My visualizations unfortunately are rather limited, as wrapping ggplot2's functionality within simpler functions kind of defeats the purpose of ggplot2. Instead of having access to a vast library of graphics, an `ecacr` user has an incredibly limited selection of graphics to generate. Additionally, since `ecacr` relies on web scraping, ECAC Hockey could decide to modify their website structure and our entire package would likely break immediately. If I were to fully develop this package, I would want to focus on the data scraping side, and altogether ditch the data visualization features of the package.
